10.0 Change Log (#4378)
cypress-io/cypress-documentation: content/_changelogs/10.0.0.md

    [#20554](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/pull/20554), and
    [#20643](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/pull/20643).
  - A Cypress configuration file is now required and passing the CLI flag
    `--config-file=false` will throw an error. Addressed in
    [#20643](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/pull/20643).
  - A default configuration file will no longer be auto-generated by Cypress
    when a configuration file doesn't exist. Instead, you can run `cypress open`
    and set up your project with a specific testing type to have this file
    generated. This allows you to customize the configuration setup by
    testing-type for the language and dependencies leveraged in your project.
  - The configuration file's JSON schema is no longer supported since the
    configuration can no longer be provided via a JSON format.
- Cypress has made several **configuration option changes** including renaming
  options, removing options, and only allowing some options within a specific
  testing type. Please run `cypress open` to have our automated migration update
  these options for you.

  - Many configuration options are now specific to either end-to-end or

>     component testing. The types have also been updated accordingly to match.

Reviewer: Style nit: "accordingly" and "to match" have the same meaning here, we can pick one. Maybe a slight tweak like this would make it more clear as somebody skims through:

```suggestion
    component testing. The types have also been updated to match the new structure.
```

  - You can now change specs or the browser within the same window as running
    your tests.
  - Many git details are now shown within your current project in Cypress
    including the current branch and the last commit details of each spec in the
    spec explorer. Addressed in
    [#20648](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/pull/20648),
    [#21139](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/pull/21139),
    [#21436](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/pull/21436) and
    [#20744](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/pull/20744)
  - When creating a new spec within Cypress, your project's language is detected
    to provide the correct file extension and the `specPattern` is checked to
    ensure the spec is found by Cypress. After creating the spec, you can
    preview the spec that was generated with the option to immediately run the
    spec or create another spec. Addressed in
    [#21225](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/pull/21225),
    [#20567](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/pull/20567),
    [#20657](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/pull/20657),
    [#20962](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/pull/20962).

>   - The Settings page has been redesigned to more clearly distinguish between

Reviewer: Should we call out that the Settings page and Runs page are both now found in the main app, and no longer found in the Launchpad?

    settings that are specific to the project, your device, and the Dashboard.

**Bugfixes:**

- An error message is displayed when you add a command using
  `Cypress.Commands.add()` that has the same name as an internal reserved
  Cypress command. Addresses
  [#6146](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/issues/6146).
- A one pixel, left, vertical border was removed that was incorrectly included

>   on screenshot artifacts generated from the `cy.screenshot()` command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  on screenshot artifacts generated from the `cy.screenshot()` command in component tests.
```

End-to-end tests didn't have this extra pixel border in 9.x, it was only included in screenshots taken during component tests. E2E screenshots are the same before and after 10.0.

Reviewer 2: Glad you clarified this because I was confused 😅

## 10.0.0

_Released TBD_

**Breaking Changes:**

> **<Icon name="exclamation-triangle" color="red"></Icon> Please read our
> [Migration Guide](/guides/references/migration-guide) which explains the changes
> in more detail and how to change your code to migrate to Cypress 10.0.**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**<Icon name="exclamation-triangle" color="red"></Icon> Please read our
[Migration Guide](/guides/references/migration-guide) which explains the changes
in more detail and how to change your code to migrate to Cypress 10.0. To automatically migrate your project, run `cypress open` with your project to be guided through our interactive migration guide.**
```

> - We introduced several breaking changes to the Cypress configuration both the
>   how the configuration is provided and to the configuration options themselves.
>   For the a detailed explanation of these changes, please consult our
>   [Migration Guide](/guides/references/migration-guide) amd use the 10.0
>   migration workflow by running `cypress open` and selecting the project you
>   would like to migrate. Breaking changes include:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- We introduced several breaking changes to the Cypress configuration.
  To automatically migrate your project, run `cypress open` with your project to be guided through our interactive migration guide. Breaking changes include:
```

  - Cypress Configuration File

>     - Using a `cypress.json` configuration file is no longer valid and must be
>       replaced with either a `cypress.config.js`, `cypress.config.ts`,
>       `cypress.config.cjs` or `cypress.config.mjs` file. This change provide
>       better flexibility and extensibility of configuration. With this change,
>       If both a `cypress.json` file and `cypress.config.*` file is found or if
>       the CLI flag of `-C,--config-file=*.json` is passed, an error will be
>       thrown. Addressed in
>       [#18221](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/pull/18221),
>       [#18300](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/pull/18300) and
>       [#20643](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/pull/20643).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Using a `cypress.json` configuration file is no longer supported and must be
      replaced with either a `cypress.config.js` file (`.ts`, `.cjs`, and `.mjs` file extensions are also supported). This change provides
      better flexibility and extensibility for configuration. If both a `cypress.json` file and `cypress.config.*` file is found an error will be
      thrown. Addressed in
      [#18221](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/pull/18221),
      [#18300](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/pull/18300) and
      [#20643](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/pull/20643).
```

>     - A Cypress configuration file is now required and passing the CLI flag
>       `-C,--config-file=false` will result in an error, where as previously
>       Cypress accepted `-C,--config-file=false` to fallback to the Cypress
>       default configuration values. By default Cypress will automatically load
>       the config file that matches `cypress.config.{cjs,js,mjs,ts}` if the
>       `-C,--config-file` CLI flag is not passed. Addressed in
>       [#20643](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/pull/20643).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - A Cypress configuration file is now required and passing the CLI flag
      `--config-file=false` will result in an error. By default Cypress will automatically load
      the config file that matches `cypress.config.{cjs,js,mjs,ts}` if the
      `--config-file` flag is not passed. Addressed in
      [#20643](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/pull/20643).
```

    - A default configuration file will no longer be auto-generated by Cypress
    if a configuration file does not exist. Instead, Cypress will take you
    through a Project Setup workflow in `open` mode. This allows you to
    customize the configuration setup by testing-type (E2E or Component Testing)
    and for the language and dependencies leveraged in your project.
    <!-- - [RECOMMENDATION] In 9.4.0 we added Intelligent Code Completion via the `defineConfig()` helper function. We encourage leveraging this helper while migrating your configuration. -->

> - Updates have been made to allow users to add `cy.hover()` and `cy.mount()`
>   customs commands using `Cypress.Commands.add()` since we suggested adding a
>   custom command since we do not provide a default implementation. Previously
>   users had to use `Cypress.Command.override()` to provide the custom command.
>   Addresses [#18941](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/issues/18941).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- You can now add `cy.hover()` and `cy.mount()`
  customs commands using `Cypress.Commands.add()`. Previously
  users had to use `Cypress.Command.override()` to provide the custom command.
  Addresses [#18941](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/issues/18941).
```

**Deprecations:**

**Features:**

- Added support for `cypress.config.cjs` and `cypress.config.mjs` configuration
  files. Addressed in

>   [#20643](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/pull/20643).

Reviewer 2: I know cypress.config.js support is technically in prior to 10.0, but since this was never announced this would be added to the changelog. I get that this is technically a feature, but it feels a bit repetitive having just read the changes in the breaking change section.

> - Enhanced `.within()` to provide visual indication of nested commands and logs.
>   This improves the readability of logs and aligns the visual structure of logs
>   with how tests are written by the user, which in turn makes dubugging easier.
>   Addresses [#20433](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/issues/20433).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Enhanced `.within()` to provide visual indication of nested commands and logs.
  This improves the readability of logs.
  Addresses [#20433](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/issues/20433).
```

**Bugfixes:**

> - Improvements have been made to the error message in the scenario when a user
>   would attempting to add a new command using `Cypress.Commands.add()` that has
>   the same name as an internal function reserved by Cypress. The improved error
>   message explains why the command name must be changed where previously a Type
>   Error was thrown without relevant information. Addresses
>   [#6146](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/issues/6146).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Error message have been improved when users
  attempt to add a command using `Cypress.Commands.add()` that has
  the same name as an internal function reserved by Cypress. Addresses
  [#6146](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/issues/6146).
```
